Christophe-Marie Duquesne

* * * * *

  Software engineer, Doctor in Applied Mathematics  
  Python, Linux  
    
  I am French, living in Munich and looking for a job over there. I am
  after ambitious projects that will challenge me and allow me to grow
  my skills. I like to ship clean, reliable, continuously deployed code.
  I am a Vim user, a Belgium beer lover, and I occasionally display
  shitty movie tastes.

* * * * *

Corporate Experience
--------------------

Since 2013
    Data Scientist for Amadeus | Travel Intelligence (Munich, Germany).

    Hadoop-based Mining on Travel Industry Data (Max 1 Petabyte). Wrote
    Flask web services, shipped as Debian packages and continuously
    integrated with Jenkins. Participated in various devops tasks: log
    collection, user authentication, transfer between data centers.

2009-2013
    PhD in Operations Research with Amadeus (Sophia Antipolis, France).

    Researched how to assign aircraft on an airline network in the most
    efficient way. Authored a C++ solver, a Python suite of 20+ command
    line tools, and Hadoop data mining scripts. Worked as a teaching
    assistant at the university and further improved my communication
    and public speaking skills.

2008 (3 months)
    Internship at Rio Tinto Alcan (Clermont Ferrand, France).

    Authored a C++ library for optimizing the revenue of a metal
    factory. The software was based on a Linear Programming model and
    outperformed the existing in-house tool.

Open Source Contributions
-------------------------

Python
    Contributor to pulp-or, a Linear Programming library. Author of
    flasfka, an http bridge for posting/getting messages to Apache
    Kafka. Author of persistentdicts, a library exposing various
    databases with Python dict-like interfaces.

Lua
    Author of lighttpd-external-auth, a lighttpd magnet script allowing
    access control via mechanisms such as OpenId.

Go
    Author of github.com/chmduquesne/rollinghash/adler32, a rolling
    version of the adler32 hash. Contributor to jackpal/gateway, a
    library for discovering the address of a LAN gateway used in
    Tapei-Torrent.

C++
    Author of yaposib, a Python binding to coin-Osi. Awarded full
    membership in the coin-or foundation in return.

C
    Author of lazylpsolverlibs, a set of proxy libraries targeting
    cplex, gurobi and xpress.

Java
    Author of talkmyphone, an android application allowing phone control
    via gtalk (10.000+ downloads, forked 50 times on googlecode). It was
    then successfully handed over to other developers.

Misc
    Experience with Arch Linux, Ada, Bash, Makefile, m4, autotools,
    cmake… See my github account and my blog.

Education
---------

2009-2012
    PhD in Mathematics and Computer Science at G-SCOP Laboratory
    (Grenoble, France).

    Integration of Fleet Deployment and of Passenger Service in Airline
    Schedule Management. Done at Amadeus, in the Operation Research team
    led by Semi Gabteni. Advisors: Denis Naddef, Olivier Briant.
    Defended in January 2013.

2005-2009
    MS in Computer Science in ENSIMAG (Grenoble, France).

    Top French school of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science with
    highly selective recruitment.

Activities and interests
------------------------

Hobbies
    I like travelling. I backpacked in 13 countries in Eastern Europe
    and South East Asia.

Sports
    Running, Cycling, Hiking. I also played rugby union for 7 years.

Activities
    I was the president of the Grand Cercle, one of the largest French
    campus student associations (5.000 members) during university.

* * * * *

  chmd@chmd.fr • +49 157 530 431 00 • 30 years old  
  Einsteinstr. 129, 81675 Munich, Germany  
    
  pdf version • txt version • doc version • html version
